=======
prn2pdf
=======

Prn2pdf converts a text file containing printer control characters
into a PDF file.

Possible applications of prn2pdf are

- use a non-text-capable printer to print documents from a text-only
  DOS application

- store these documents on a CD-ROM instead of printing them out.

prn2pdf can be used in combination with any DOS application which
offers the possibility (1) to configure manually the control sequences
to be sent to the printer (2) to capture the printer output to a file
instead of printing directly.  If (2) is missing, you can probably
work around easily by using prn2file or some similar tool which
redirects a printer port to file.

prn2pdf takes the stream which was destinated to the printer and
renders this text into a pdf file using the standard Courier font
(which is the only monospaced standard font in PDF files). It also
checks for control sequences and executes them, and converts the
encoding from codepage 437 to latin-1.

The DOS application thinks that it is printing to a normal text
printer, but the printer output is redirected to a file. Then you run
prn2pdf.exe to create a PDF file, and then you run Acrobat Reader to
display or print the result.

prn2pdf is written in Python, using the Reportlab Toolkit and
distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.

Output Examples

- 1.pdf (18.04.03, 4612 bytes) : a general accounts balance
        (original input was 1.prn (18.04.03, 8675 bytes))
		  
- 2.pdf (18.04.03, 3601 bytes) : a listing in Landscape mode (would
		  not print correctly on a real LQ) (original input was 2.prn
		  (18.04.03, 6455 bytes))

Printer control codes
---------------------

prn2pdf "emulates" a fictive printer which has control sequences to
print in landscape mode, set the character size, print bold and/or
italic.

Besides this classical minimal functionality, prn2pdf also offers a
control sequence to insert pictures which are stored in a .jpg file.

A control sequence is always started by ESC, and stopped by SPC. Note
that the trailing SPC is required and will not be printed.

  ESC "c12" SPC 	 select 12 cpi
  ESC "b1" SPC 	 activate bold font
  ESC "b0" SPC 	 deactivate bold font
  ESC "i1" SPC 	 activate italic font
  ESC "i0" SPC 	 deactivate italic font
  ESC "Ilogo.jpg 7x10mm" SPC 	

ESC means : a byte of value 0x1B (Escape)
SPC means : a byte of value 0x20 (Space)

For more control sequences look at the source!

To do
-----


- The box characters of codepage 437 or 850 are not correctly
  rendered. As a current workaround they are replaced by +, - and |
  and look a little bit...

  ::  

    ???????????????
    ?...like this ?
    ???????????????

  These box characters which are heavily used by DOS applications
  exist in Unicode, but I don't know how much work it is to convert
  them correctly to PDF.
  

- I implemented only those printer control commands which I thought
  useful.
  

- In Landscape mode, Acrobat reader does not recognize this fact and
  displays the document vertically rotated. But the printed document
  is okay.
  

Historical Notes
----------------

My first idea was to emulate an Epson LQ printer so that the tool
would be more easy to integrate. But I dropped this idea because I
don't know anybody who would need this feature. (If you are
interested, you can ask me for this version which works in some cases
but is incomplete: prn2pdf-0.0.1.py)

Another reason why I dropped this idea is that prn2pdf extends the
printing possibilities beyond the limits of physical printers.

For example, Epson LQ printers don't offer the possibility to print in
Landscape mode
(www.missico.com/personal/support/epson_escape_codes.htm).

I also thought to emulate HP instead of Epson (they have a Landscape
mode), but HPLG is quite difficult to parse because the syntax is more
complex.



Alternatives
------------

- http://dosprn.ks.ua/
